We're talking with Mr. William South, and he was telling us about this portrait.
It's a painting of John Barrymore as Hamlet.
It was done by Decker, who was a great pal of Barrymore's.
And at home, the first time I saw it was in Barrymore's home on Tower Road, which Katherine Hepburn was leasing.
And my wife and I housed it for six weeks.
Oh, this was Peggy.
When did we house sit for Hepburn?
What?
Eddie was four.
Four, so that's 45 years ago.
And I admired that painting, and then we became very good friends with Kate and Spence, and actually Spence's family, too.
And the last time I saw him alive, I guess I stopped and looked at that painting, and he said to the rapper, why don't we give that painting to Bill?
He likes it.
And she said, well, let me think about that.
And eventually, cut through a long story, we were having lunch with her in London,
And she said, do you see what they're painting?
And I said, yes.
She said, well, go.
I'll tell my housekeeper you're coming over and get it.
So that's the ship up there.
Got an association.
Was a ship that Kate gave to Spencer.
And after his death, she invited Kate to me over and said, if you'd like something out of this room of Spencer's, take your pick.
And I said, well, I'd like that ship.
And she said, well, I gave that to Spencer.
So she said, I'm very fond of it.
You may have it.
That was Spencer Tracy's ship.
Yeah, yeah.
Set on his mantle.
These are.
But a lot of these, before we start the real thing, we're friends of the Wright brothers' family.
And this is a part of the original airplane, the first airplane to fly.
As he says, these parts were broken while the plane was on the ground, overturned by wind after the fourth flight of that day, December 17, 1903.
And this is Wolverine.
Wilbur carried that all over the world.
Orville Reddell parted with it, even after Wilbur's death.
And the family considered it one of the few things of Wilbur that they retained.
And anyway, this incident was an interesting little item.
The first edition, volume one, of the West Side News, publisher Orville Wright.
I'm getting this.
But here's the satchel and Wilbur at Kitty Hawk.
There it is.
And then there's a photographer.
Now, where did you find the photo?
I got that from the family.
And another thing in here is Tyrone.
Oh, this is the boy.
Here's a cartoon that appeared, I think, in the New York Daily News or something.
Coming back from Europe, being welcomed by Wilbur Hedges.
As he says, the satchel card.
The satchel, they said, went every place to all.
Now, was that a personal thing or tools?
Or what are you supposed to find in it?
He carried his socks in there.
So anyway, where I've been at Wright, Miller, who's now 93 or 94, and her husband, also about that age, are good friends of ours, and we were pleased they had.
That's quite an extraordinary event, isn't it?
They had some of the propellers.
Uh-huh.
You know, and they're living them, and then they eventually gave that— They gave it to the Air Museum, and they permitted them a $750,000 write-off for that propeller.
These people lived modestly.
Mm-hmm.
And still gave all these wonderful historical things that were worth, you know.
I think the family sold the Kitty Hawk to the Smithsonian for one dollar.
They have a whole album of checks for one dollar.
Where they sold things to the museum to give, basically given it.
Do they live in Ohio?
Yes, they still live in Dayton.
We talked to them quite a lot.
any okay because it was a major major i'm going to put this close to you over here because what i have to say is when i was doing some research in the newbury last uh last fall i was going through some things and you actually have been a couple of times on a tamalei but we've been on the the one that that
University of Schroderbach, the Regenstein.
That's exactly right.
I was the underbidder on that.
What happened was that I... I had made a deal with Lou Feldman to bid for me, and Lou and I had falling out just before the sale because we found somebody else.
He found somebody else to bid on me, and I said, let me do that.
He said, no.
It's not.
And I said, well, in that case, we bought company because I'm going to bid on my own.
And he said, fine.
So I bid on my own, did not think the thoughts of John Fleming about it, who I've used before, and I knew.
John later said to me, I wish you'd have talked to me, Bill, because he said, I could have saved you a lot of trouble.
He said, you couldn't buy that book for any amount of money.
Mrs. Regenstein had said, buy it, John, just buy it.
So I stopped at $120,000, which was far the most
Well, you've got to fit on the board.
They sold for $123,000.
And then I thought, well, that's the end of my efforts to get Tamerlane, and then this other copy came on the market.
And I actually had earmarked four core items that I would love to have had.
One was Tamerlane, which I did not expect again.
At that sale.
And then I felt if I didn't get Tamerlane, I would then secondly try to buy our wrap.
That would be a very interesting item.
Yeah, excuse me.
I'd love to have it if I don't have it.
And if I didn't get Al Rapp, I was going to bid on the tail in the original rappers.
I have the raven in the rap, but I didn't have the tail.
And if I didn't get that, I was going to bid on the 1831 poems.
But if I got Panelline, I wasn't going to bid on anything because I didn't have any money left.
So that's actually what happened.
So you went to New York with a budget then?
Yeah, which I promptly exceeded.
No, we talked about it.
Peggy's been very supportive in all this, and I said, we're going to spend a lot of money on one book, and I don't know whether it's going to be Al Arab or Paralene or the poems, and she said, fine.
I don't think I would have gone any higher than I did on Paralene, because it was a major stretch for us, and
Secondly, I had some other things I would have settled for.
Is that all you got at that sale, by the way?
Yes, that's all I've been on.
One, it was the talk of the hall, really, because not many people knew who you were right there.
And this elegant gentleman and his wife, you were with him, as I recollect, were there, and they fit on one item, and that was that.
Well, a true story that you might find interesting enough to put in your book.
On the previous family, there's a head of the Red Book Department of Courage was a man named Arthur Freeman.
Arthur came over to that sale.
What sale was it?
This was the gardens.
No, that was just a manuscript, a book and manuscript sale.
This was the one that the guy found up in New Hampshire.
No.
The one prior to that.
This was the one prior to that.
This was part of a major collector's work.
Anyway, at that sale... We're doing good.
Go ahead.
We're doing fine.
Arthur Freeman came over representing Quaritches, and he and I knew each other very little bit.
We know each other better now.
And he was at a time when he told me Quaritches didn't have much money to acquire things, and they had put a very tight leash on him, and they said, don't spend too much money.
And he said, okay.
So he came to the sale, and after...
Tamerlane sold.
He wired his boss back in London.
Highlight of the sale, Tamerlane.
Sale price $123,000.
Self underbidder.
And they thought he was the underbidder.
And so they called him up and said, we told you not to bid.
That's a great story.
Well, that's the taste of it.
And the doctor said it's a good story for him.
I guess I asked you about the Tamerlane, not only when it started our talk, because that's how I met you, but perhaps you could use that as a window into your thinking as a collector.
Why were you so set on the Tamerlane?
And maybe that will give me a little insight on your focus as a collector.
It is obviously the high spot of American literature, in my opinion it is.
It's called The Black Tulip, as you know.
And I guess an ego thing gets into your equation when you start going after a book like that.
And I had a decent Poe collection.
Peggy bought me, I think.
The first Poe item was Arthur Gordon Pym.
Arthur Gordon Pym.
Yeah, and that got me going on Poe.
And then over the years, we bought Murders in the Room, more of a George sale, which was a very rare item.
And then I eventually bought The Raven in wrappers.
And I have acquired some manuscript material.
I have a fair copy of his poem for Annie, Thank Heaven the Name of the Crisis of the Last, which Peggy kind of forced me to buy it, because she kept saying, buy it.
And I said, well, I don't know.
It's a lot of money.
Anyway, so I had built up what I thought was a decent book collection.
But I was minus the two or three really high phosphates from Al Raft and, of course, family.
So having lost it the other time, and at that time, too, we said if we buy this book, we've got to sell one of the children because, you know, it was a lot of money.
And this time we decided, you know, in my lifetime, I may never give another crack at it.
I think there's only two, maybe three in private hands.
I guess there's three in private hands.
You know that Dick Manning's books are being sold this fall.
Have you read that?
No, I didn't know that, no.
I'd be happy to tell you a little bit about that.
That's a very interesting story, including his tablet.
All of his books had a little problem, I guess.
It's one of the Shakespeare's that he bought.
I know, he bought those recently.
In November of 89 at the garden sale.
So there will be another... Another Tamerlane.
Another Tamerlane.
And Bart Auerbach, by the way, says to say hello to you.
Oh, yeah, nice fan.
Nice fan.
He has very nice things about you.
He thinks that your Tamerlane, by the way, is better than Maddie's.
I think it probably is.
From what I hear, I never saw his.
The one we did not get at the University of Florida is the best copy I've ever seen.
It was a superior copy.
And it's very funny because right after the University of Chicago bought that, we went to the University of Chicago.
Peggy and I both went to the University of Chicago.
And right after they got a letter soliciting funds for their rare book department, just talking to their own fellow, they'd expect me to give money to outfib myself.
That's great.
Well, anyway, I didn't make a contribution.
But we were very friendly with Bob Norsenthal, who was there, and Bob was there.
Nice man.
Just before I got out there.
He was very helpful to me in an item we were very proud of.
We have part of Emily Bronte and Anne Bronte's diary.
And the way that came about was that Bill Cagle, do you know him of the Lilly Library?
Lilly went to see him.
Well, Bill Cagle called me one day and said, I know where Emily and part of Emily and Anne's diary is.
We can't afford it or it doesn't fit in with our collection.
And he said, I thought of you.
And he said, I'll put you in touch with the lady who has it.
He said, I don't think she'll sell it to you, but I'll tell you who has it.
He told me a lady in Chicago named Frances Cooper had it.
And Frances was a wonderful old lady.
She was certainly in her 80s, don't you think, when we met her.
And she'd made her money with the Wrigley account.
I understand that this lady personally handled the Wrigley account for years and years.
And she had a wonderful Virginia Woolf collector.
And she didn't really much care about the Brantes, or said so.
And she had this diary, and the first thing she said to me when I walked in the door, I went to see her the first time by myself, and Peggy went later times.
She said, I'm not going to say The Brownie Diary.
And I said, fine, but I'm really just thrilled to see it, but she felt a little happy to show it to you.
So we kept up, this went on for at least three or four years, and I was thinking every time we went there, she'd say, well, I'm not going to stop there.
I said, no, I know you're not.
I'm not asking you to.
And then once when we went there, we were her house guests.
She had lost.
We could not find it.
And she gave us carte blanche.
Well, she had nieces, and we were the house guests, and I'm proud to collect it.
You know, the scene is set for a crime.
And she let us go through the whole house.
We could not find it for her.
And then I heard that she passed on.
And I contacted the nieces, and they said they had found it just before she died in the hospital.
She remembered where she put it.
And they knew that she wanted me to have it.
And they had gave it to Bob Rosenthal to appraise.
And Bob Rosenthal felt unsure of himself in making the appraisal.
So he involved John Fleming in New York.
And the two of them appraised the book and told me what it was appraised.
That meant I bought it.
So we had a nice... What happened to the rest of her...
So the ginger wolf she gave to her university, didn't she?
Was it Smith or something like that?
I think it was Smith.
She gave a lot to Northwestern.
She gave to, in general, she gave away.
Were these things that she had acquired?
Yes.
She said she had never hoped anything she had.
She was either given away or kept.
So at some point that she had acquired a diary and then kind of lost interest in it.
You know, I don't think she really did.
In my opinion, she really loved it.
And it was a little game we were kind of playing.
She knew that I wanted it.
She wasn't about to sell it.
She didn't need the money.
And I think she was very pleased to have it.
The Grantees, every four years, they wrote a couple of pages on their birthday.
And this was one of the first things that it's coming.
transcripts of the diary that started 30 years old.
My collecting, if you want that background, started with our daughter.
Our daughter is now a middle-aged lady with two teenage daughters, but once she graduated from high school, we asked her what she wanted for high school graduation.
Is that accurate?
It was junior high.
Junior high, okay.
She was quite young.
You were living out here?
Yes, we were around here.
We've lived out here for forty-five years, forty-six years, forty-seven years.
Anyway, she said that she'd seen a huge copy, she thought it was the first edition, as it turned out to be, of Huckleberry Pink.
And it was in a huge bookstore, and it was $50.
And that's what she wanted.
So we bought it for her, and she was very pleased, and it was on that library shelf up there.
That's an unusual thing for a... Yes.
Well, she's now a professional librarian.
She doesn't work at it because she's raising her children, but that's her master's degree in library science.
So it's been ingrained for a long time.
And then we all went to London, by all I mean my daughter and Peggy and I. And she wanted to go get something in Dickens.
So we went to shops we'd heard about, Spencer's, specialized in Dickens.
And I think she had a hundred dollars to spend.
Well, she had a little more than that.
She had her life saving, and I think it was around three hundred.
Three hundred dollars.
Yeah.
She wanted, Dickens was her.
Really?
It was a big thing.
What's this daughter's name?
Barbara.
That's my daughter's name.
Barbara Lloyd Malone.
Yeah, so she, well, what happened, Bill had to come back.
Barbara and I went to W.G.
Spencer.
And we went first to the Dickens house.
and she asked them where she should go, and they told her it doesn't have the expenses.
She also asked them, by this time she had just graduated from high school, she asked if she could have some of the red geraniums to take over to his grave, because we were going from the Dickens House to Westminster Abbey, and there were some elderly ladies kind of taking care of the Dickens House.
They were told to wrote it.
They said the scarlet geranium was his favorite flower, and that's why they were in the box.
So we went from there and took the little bouquet from his house to his grave at Westminster Abbey.
And then the next day we went and made out for him.
She made it at W.P.
Spencer.
So when we got there, Nellie Clark was the lady's name.
She said, how much do you have to spare?
Barbara told her, and she said, well, you must have an autograph.
And she said, she put out a few things, because when Barbara called, she told her what she was interested in.
So she bought a straightforward edition of Tale of Two Setties, wasn't it?
Pickwick.
And a check.
And the Pickwick had a photograph, kind of tipped in of Dickens, and his
sisters or daughters, I always forget which.
And with that, we then came home.
The following year, Bill and I went to London, and he said, you know, I'd kind of like to go to that rare bookstore last year.
So he called this clerk, and he said, my daughter and wife were in last year.
Oh, she said, I remember she got a straightforward edition of Pickwick and the check.
You know, she knew exactly.
So, that was the beginning.
Were you feeling the onset of the virus?
Yeah, I did.
And I've always been a collector, but not a book.
I mean, I've got a magic collection.
I've got part of the Hurston Show upstairs.
I'm a collector of Antioch.
I'm a Russell Bill collector.
I am an early Hollywood collector.
I've got more Valentino stuff than you've ever seen in your life.
I've got thousands of pictures of Valentino.
We live in a bubble.
Well, I wanted to be a collector, but I did not know anything about it.
Oh, we were meaning from childhood?
Yeah, I think so, really.
And then, I kid about this a little bit, but there's some truth to it.
I started looking for books for Barbara, and some of them were fairly expensive.
And after I bought them, I thought, well, we really can't give Barbara this expensive gift for no reason.
We've got to be fair to our other sons.
And so I started seeing
And I said, I've done a terrific library.
Barbara's still waiting for her next book.
But really, Barbara did get me going, and then I got very interested.
And I, too, got interested first in Dickens.
Dickens was my first collector.
And I think you indicated on the phone that he's probably your greatest single collector.
Well, it is.
That whole shelf over there, those three panels, they're all Dickens, first editions.
I have 23 or 24 presentation chapters.
Hans Christian Andersen and George Eliot.
Is there one of those here that we can see?
Yeah, they're both here.
I brought one of the Hans Christian Andersen.
What did you describe to Hans Christian Andersen?
One to George Eliot.
Those are, when we say association copies, those are association copies.
I have one of the, it is known that Dickens autographed X number of bodies, I've forgotten exactly how many, of The Christmas Carol on, I think, the 17th of December.
That's the earliest known date that he inscribed a copy, and I have one of those.
So I have some nice associations.
We have to tell you anything that you'd like.
Yeah, we'll tell you.
If you have any particular interest.
I think at some point, I'd love to get just a little more of a background.
Well, you know, Peggy is, in a modest way, collected Robert Louis-Stevenson, particularly child-striving verses.
It gave us a mutual interest when we'd travel.
You know, we'd look up bookstores.
Instead of going to a saloon, we'd go to a bookstore.
So it worked out very well.
That's the first thing we do.
We went out to the Huntington this morning, and Bill Moffat, we were there to see Bill, and they had a book sale going on over there.
He said, you're not buying books.
I'm sorry.
We come to California area.
I have a sense that you're a collector.
I mean,
Clearly, this has to be a synergistic kind of thing almost, don't you?
Well, I'm not really a collector.
Apparently, I'm an exception to the rule that they're not always sympathetic to the husband's collection.
But I have enjoyed being on the fringe.
I really don't have much interest in acquiring.
I enjoy the project probably more than it.
How do you mean I enjoy being on the fringe?
If you could just elaborate on that.
Being on the fringe of the collecting?
The fringe, meaning that on the fringe of Bill's collecting.
I'm exposed to it, I'm part of it, but I'm not the one now.
It is true that Bill will hesitate to buy
And I encouraged him to go ahead and do it.
He had said, we often regret what we don't bought.
You seldom regret what you bought.
You say, gee whiz, I should have done this.
But I don't have the interest in acquiring myself.
If there is a sale, to give you an example, if there's a sale coming up, I think you won't even look at the catalog.
No, I don't.
I will look at the catalog, and I will say to her, hey, there's a Bronte letter, or there's a Poe item.
I'd love to have it.
She says, what is it?
We talk about it.
If we go to the sale and bid on it, she's there saying, keep going.
Oh, they're frightening, aren't they?
You see, when he bid on the first Tamra line, the one that went to the University of Chicago,
I was so incensed, as was Bill, at this deal, for being so, you know, crooked.
There's no other way to put it.
Well, he was opportunistic.
Opportunistic and unprofessional.
Now, honestly, at that point in our lives, we would have had to put a mortgage on the house to buy that book, had Bill gotten it for $120,000.
Would you have done that?
Well, we had assets.
We could have done it, but it wasn't a case of... I mean, but did it mean enough to you that you would consider that?
Yeah, yeah.
I wasn't prepared to do it.
I did it.
You know, the proof is that I did it.
Yeah, and I was in full agreement.
So tell me, Phil, why would you consider... You didn't, I understand you didn't, but what is so important about getting this item that you would even consider
Well, I mean, certainly it's not because of the value of it.
I know it's an investment.
No, I don't.
We don't buy for investment.
It's rarity, I think.
It's rarity.
It was the... He thought it would be the last one he would ever have an opportunity to buy.
I don't think that you can say you have a great Poe collection if you haven't got talent.
You can say you've got a good Poe collection.
I don't think you can say you've got a great Lewis Carroll collection if you haven't got a 65-hour.
You see, it's not like going and buying a mint coat or something.
It is something of intrinsic value that will hold it to value, probably increase in value.
So whether you are putting your money in one place or another... Yeah, I'm going to clarify.
In fact, undoubtedly increase in value.
But to clarify a point that's obvious, I think, really, is we weren't going to have to deny our children going to college,
we weren't going to have to, you know, take my mother's off of the lounge or something.
You know, it wasn't that kind of thing.
It was just that $120,000 cash would, you know, have to sell them.
Well, how many of us have the bouncing or welder?
You know, and it's obvious that you could afford to do it, but I'm looking for the, you know, the mindset.
Now, we did.
Connie and I interviewed a guy in Sacramento last year on our last trip.
who in fact mortgaged his house to get a Hemingway item.
And when we were there, his wife was in the process of divorcing.
No, I don't think we've ever done that.
I think that we have spent more on some books than we planned to, but never, I don't think, at the expense of security or comfort.
I remember when we bought our 65 Alice,
Peggy was, she didn't mind it, the book collected.
Peggy wanted to give me, was it a birthday present?
I think it was.
She wanted to give me a birthday present.
And what she now says she had in mind was maybe a $500 book.
Or a thousand, you know, something like that.
And we have had very good luck with a dealer in Chicago at that time, Hamlin Barker.
The books are now dead, but there's someone who's taken over there.
But Hamlin Barker were wonderful old ladies,
always had something kind of special.
And I called them, long distance, and I said to Miss Hamill, I'll tell you what you want to buy me, she knew both of us, and buy me this present, and what have you got?
And she said, oh dear, which was one of her favorite expressions when she had something special.
She said, oh dear, I've got something coming in.
People don't know we're going to get it.
It may be beyond what you plan to spend.
I said, what is it?
She said, Alice, 65 hours.
And I said, well, forgive me, Francis, but, you know, I know the consensus.
I know where they all are.
There isn't one for sale that I know of.
She said, well, yes, Bill, there is.
She said, the Forsheimer Library, the son, once in a while, takes to buy a mountain and sell it.
And he has, a few years ago, sold this to another lady.
And she now wants to dispose of it.
She asked us to do so.
And she also has two, three others.
And I said, well, what do you want for it?
She said, $25,000.
That's a steal, though.
I know.
I'm not even thinking $500 or $1,000.
I have to hang up the phone and say, well, she catches me.
But $25,000.
Now, she had quoted me two, three other things.
She had a...
A Russian translation, that was $1,000.
She had a beautiful copy, I bought it finally, but of the 66 Alice, the finest copy I've ever seen.
That was another $2,000.
The significance of the 65, that's the one he wanted to suppress, isn't it?
Yes, yes.
There are 19 copies, I think.
There are, I think, two or three in private hand.
Justin Schiller has one.
Anyway, I said she's got a 65,000.
I want to hear about it in this poem.
20 years ago?
I don't know.
Approximately.
It's in the 60s, 70s.
But he thought he was trying to deal.
So he did talk to me and couldn't call him a pack.
And he said, you know, I think I'll offer $25,000 for all of them.
They're waiting to get him through for me, $1,000 worth, along with the $65.
So he called her back.
She said, oh, dear.
She said, you know, we have someone waiting now who will pay the $25,000.
So he snapped it up.
But we didn't snap it up in the sense of, sure, we'll do it.
We really did some soul-searching about whether we... At that time, it was the most we ever spent for any book.
And the reason we bought it was the same reason I guess we bought Camino.
We felt we would never again get another chance, I thought, in my lifetime probably.
But it turned out there was another one that came up, two of us, in one sale.
It was Heritage, wasn't it?
It closed you?
I was just going to say, you know, the rule of thumb now is anything
10 or 15 years ago, you can add a zero in the value.
I was offered a $300,000.
Yeah, Mark Heim called me and said, yes, we had a client.
That's fine, and that's not likely to be the kind of detail.
The funny part, my sister was visiting at the time that Mark Heim made the offer, and she lives in Mount Floyd, but much in Washington.
So she was privy to the conversation with the law discussion, so she called her son and told him about this offer.
And then she said, and he didn't take it.
That's why.
I'll just use it without mentioning the individual.
Yes, that's my fault.
You mentioned Luke Bowman.
Did you know him well?
Well, he bid for me two or three different sales.
I did get mad at him, as I mentioned earlier, when he accepted a bid higher than mine.
The thing that made it so bad, I won't bore you with all the details.
No, this is enough movies.
Kelvin's an individual I'm interested in.
Well, the thing that upset us the most was we had dinner with Luke Kelvin the night before that sale with Tamerlane.
And I had given Luke some other bids.
And he said, what are you going to do about Tamerlane?
And I said, I'm not going to bid on it.
He said, why not?
And I said, because it's going to go for too much money.
He said, how do you know that?
And I said, well, what do you think it'll go for?
He said, I know exactly what it'll go for.
He said, it'll go for $50,000.
I said, why do you know that?
He said, well, because the guy that bought it, Stockhausen, I guess it was.
Stockhausen bought it.
I think he paid $40,000 for it.
He said, it was very recently.
He said, the universities don't have the money to bid.
I believe they've got a $45,000 reserve on it, and I think the first bid over that will get it.
So you buy it for $50,000.
without going into a lot of detail.
We said, okay, if it goes for that, we'll give up.
He said, fine.
So I arrived at the sale the next morning.
All excited.
And Lou came to me and said, I've accepted another.
Another party has come to me.
Back on again.
Lou, and Lou said, you know, I've dealt with this man before.
He's a very regular fellow.
He's an old customer.
He's willing to bid more than we discussed, he said to me.
I said, well, I might go more.
You know, we agreed that if it went more than that, we'd talk it over before we dropped out.
And he said, well, very honestly, I don't believe that you can meet what this man's going to bid.
So I said, well, fine.
At $90,000, I drove Feldman out of the bidding.
And he was the slightest himself.
I drove him out at $90,000, and I thought we were going to buy it.
And John Fleming hadn't even bid at this point.
And then when Feldman dropped out, and it was just me, I thought, I'm going to buy this book.
Feldman, Fleming, woke up and said, you know, $95,000 or whatever.
So he waited till... He waited.
And then, as he told me later, he was told to buy it at any cost.
So I wouldn't have dropped it.
But that's what happened.
But it was fun, right?
Yeah.
Do you get a little bit of a... Well, it made me famous.
I went into a bookstore shortly thereafter because it was written up, you know.
This sale was in Chicago, I think.
No, it wasn't in New York.
That's how it was in New York.
Yeah.
And I went into a bookstore I'd never been in before, and the manager or someone came up to me and said, may I help you?
And I said, my name is Bill Self, and I was like, oh, Mr. Self, he said, we wouldn't have anything that would interest you.
I thought it was quite amazing.
Now, you mentioned the 65 Alice, to jump back.
Is this a high spot acquisition?
No, I have Lewis Carroll in depth.
Most of my authors I have in some depth, certainly Dickens, Poe, Bronte, I think we have all in the Bronte novel, Austen, the first position we have all of them, Eliot,
You know, and then certain authors, I would have to say, are absolutely high spots.
I have one Melville, I have Uncle Tom's cabin, I have, you know, Origin of the Species.
And I'm pretty much into literature.
I don't have, people talk to me sometimes about books that are covered in 1471 or something.
I don't know anything about it, you know.
Incunables.
Yeah, that kind of stuff.
I just don't know anything about it.
We had a look at the 5,000 books.
are so in funerals at the Huntington's.
That's quite a thing.
And when we were down in the vault area today, they took us down to the depths of the place.
I had one kind of amusing thing with the Huntington's.
We have a copy of Watery Heights, which has Charlotte Bronte's notes in her sheet book.
And those notes were disputed by someone who wrote a book on it.
and said that they didn't think there were any evidence that those notes were made by Charlotte, even though Charlotte had edited the book for the second edition.
The book came from Charlotte's husband, so it came out of the parsonage, through Charlotte's husband, to Clement Shorter, to so-and-so-and-so, to me.
So here you have a book that came from Charlotte's library, and who else's notes would be in that?
So I wanted to get some expert opinion on this from the Huntington
And I called them and told them my story.
And they said, fine.
And they would get out their copy of Weathering Heights when I came over and we would have a chance to compare.
Then he called me back, sort of very stupid, and said, we never got a copy of Weathering Heights.
So I was very pleased with that.
But it is a, we've had several experiences with potential forgeries.
One of the more interesting one was at the sale in Chicago.
What was that?
It was a Joyce sale.
I bought Murders in the Rumor there through Lou Felton.
And prior to the sale, I had said to Lou that I wanted to bid on, if I didn't get Murders in the Rumor, I wanted to bid on a page of manuscript called The Rationale of Mercy.
And it was estimated, I don't remember what it was estimated, but $5,000 or whatever it was.
And so I bought Murders in the Revoir, and then I said to Lou, don't bid on the rationale, because I'd like to have it, but I've spent my money.
So then the auctioneer on the rationale said, we have been advised that this might be a forgery, and the state has requested that we sell it anyway.
They don't want to keep it, but we're advising you that you have to buy it, knowing that it might not be genuine.
So Luke turned to me and said, what do you want to do?
And I said, well, let's do it.
So he did, I honestly think it was $150, wasn't it?
And the auctioneer, glad to get rid of this thing, put the hammer down and said, sold.
At which point, very famous New York dealer named Papantonio, Michael Papantonio.
He stands up and says, Mr. auctioneer, I am trying to buy that.
I'm bidding on that article.
And he said, ask my neighbors that I have been trying to get your attention.
At which point, he jumps up.
And one good thing, if he was on your side, at this time he was, he was a very gruff, bluff, and formidable opponent.
He jumps up and he said, the hammer has fallen, I bought it for Mr. Self.
And we consider the item sold.
So the auctioneer was standing there not knowing what to do.
He could open the bidding again.
He could.
But Papitoneo put up and said, if it's for Mr. Self, I will withdraw my book.
He's a class man.
He gave his collection of bindings to the American Antiquariate Society, which is pre-eminent.
Then afterwards, Todd Ponyer came up to me and said, you know, it's absolutely general.
He said the companion pieces, there's a page in the bird collection, there's a page at the hunt, and so forth and so on.
And we've since visited those places that have compared.
It is absolutely fabulous.
So we've had good luck in that.
What, Kramer?
Do you have any impression that you thought this was not a forgery when you told someone to come after this?
We were not knowledgeable.
I wasn't knowledgeable enough.
I had looked at it beforehand.
It certainly looked like Poe's handwriting.
There's no question about that.
And I only was buying it as a... Oh, it's an interesting curiosity.
You know, I've got a piracy on...
And I got it for $20 down in the building.
Well, the wise forgeries, some of the wise forgeries are very valuable.
But the piracies are collectibles in their own right.
Tell me about glaring at things that you still covet.
Maybe that's too strong a word.
I don't cover it a lot.
You cover it in Carolyn.
Yes.
There are some books I'd like to have.
Okay.
And let's strike the word cover.
No, but there are some books I'd like to have.
And recently I had a chance to acquire two of them, and now I didn't choose to do so.
One was The Whale.
I'd like a copy of The Whale.
And I'd like to have... That's the British.
That's the British.
That's the British movie.
And I was offered a copy for $25,000 a year or so ago.
which by today's standards is cheap.
Not bad.
How was the condition?
Beautiful condition.
The circumstances, I won't give you the name of the dealer, but he brought me both The Whale and Frankenstein in the board, and I wanted both books.
But he wanted to trade me.
See, I have a lot of duplicates.
I have duplicates of most of the major dickens items.
And he wanted to trade me some of my duplicates for these, which is not a bad idea.
He really, I felt that he knew more about books than I did, and I wasn't able to equate my books to his books, and I just felt uncomfortable about the deal.
And he was straightforward.
He said, I have to, I'm my pencil.
So he wanted to buy from us wholesale.
So we didn't get those two books.
Both of us I would like to have.
Do you regret not making the deal?
I regret not paying him cash for it.
Yeah, that's what I was thinking, too.
I don't regret having kept the book.
So you had an either-or situation.
Yeah.
He was trying to make it easy for me.
He said, look, you've got these students.
This one's just wearing a string.
Maybe you just don't want to part with any of the books.
No, I don't.
I only saw one book in my life and I'm mad about that.
I think that's what it's all about.
There's a very important facet of your collecting that you have omitted.
What's that?
Ten years.
I'm also going to admit, Kenyon, we can certainly talk about Kenyon.
I mean, he added so to the funds of your book collection.
The reason I have what I modestly feel is the greatest dick inflection in the world is not through my efforts or penance, but through the efforts of a man named Kenyon Starling.
Do you know that name?
No.
Well, all the book dealers old enough to know it, and you'd have to be in the business 10 years.
No, Kenyon Starling.
Kenyon Starling was a gentleman from Dayton, Ohio, and I am from Dayton, Ohio.
And at the Sudanese sale in London, which was a major Dickens sale, Peggy and I went to London with our modest budget of what we wanted to buy from the Sudanese sale.
We did not get, I don't think, a single item that was my first choice.
We bought a few items, nice items.
But I kept getting outbid by someone.
LDS.
Lou Feldman.
So I finally said to someone, who's Lou Feldman bidding for?
And he said, he's bidding for a guy from Dayton, Ohio.
I said, I'm from Dayton, Ohio.
And he said, well, this guy's a recluse.
And I thought he said his name was Sterling, so I remembered that name.
And we came back.
not having gotten a lot of the things we wanted.
And we were going to go to Chicago on business for some kind of a television convention or something.
And I said to Peggy, well, why don't we try to go over to Dayton and see some friends in Dayton, and I'll try to find this guy, Sterling, who wrote this and see if he'll show me his collection, though he's supposed to be a recluse.
So I didn't know how to contact him, so I called Don Fleming from Los Angeles.
And John, of course, was in New York.
And I said, do you know this guy?
I didn't want to call him the government.
I thought he might not want me to get together with his clients.
And that would be understandable.
And so John was coming and said, the gentleman's name is Starling.
And he was standing by my side.
I said, I'm calling you 3,000 miles away about a guy that lives in Dayton, Ohio, and he's standing by your side.
He said, yes.
He said, do they put it on?
So I said, this is about it.
Isn't this okay?
True.
And I said, I'm from Dayton, Ohio, and I was at the Susan O'Sale, and I'd love to, we're coming to Dayton, and I'd love to see your collection.
She said, by all means.
So we make a date.
Peggy and I went out, and it was a library, which would put my library to say, not only all the authors we've talked about, but this way, Thackeray, and Trollope, and all the modern... Conrad.
Conrad, and the modern Hemingway, Faulkner,
Well, our relationship really began about 1970.
It's been 20 years, at least, that this happened.
And as you do, after we were ready to leave, we said, well, Mr. Starling, if you ever get to Los Angeles, look us up.
We'd love to show you my library.
We'd say, fine.
People never do, but we'd say fine.
So the phone rings one day, about a year later, and it's Mr. Starling, and he's going to come out, and he'd like to see my library.
So we took him to dinner.
that I've talked with a lot.
And we told him the story of Huckleberry, the first edition of Fifth Back.
He said, well, you must see my copy of Huckleberry.
Then because it's pristine, it was.
Then we had a nice evening with him.
Then, I think this is correct.
I may have seen him one other time in the book.
But just remember, he went home back in that visit, and then he wrote
And he said, I want this because I would like her to have my copy of Huckleberry Finn.
Oh, my God.
So he was going to decree her his copy of Huckleberry Finn because she had kind of started the library and she had gotten this little kind of a poor copy, you know, and so forth.
Then go ahead.
Well, then I ran into her.
I went into a bookstore in New York.
It's another year, you know, down there.
I had no real contact with him.
Went into a bookstore in New York, and there he is, smoking a pipe, looking for books.
And this is amazing.
Well, it's an amazing story.
And I said, Mr. Darling, what are you doing in New York?
He said, I'm buying a few books.
And I said, have you got a dinner date?
He said, no.
And I said, well, let me go to dinner.
So I took him to a kind of a theatrical hangout in New York, the Palm, which you were doing.
And he got a picture of that.
Did they have it again?
The Palm, P-A-L-M.
It's a steak joint in New York.
It's all about the bakery.
And there was a sale coming up, and I asked him about a Dickens item, and he said, I wouldn't buy that.
And I said, well, I know you wouldn't buy it, because he was such a sticker on condition.
He wouldn't buy anything that wasn't terrific.
And I said, you wouldn't buy it, but I haven't got it.
You have.
And he said, yeah, that's not a very good copy.
He said, I wouldn't buy it.
So I said, OK.
So then another item came to mind, and I said, well, what about this?
He said, I wouldn't buy that either.
And I said, really?
Why not?
He said, well, you're forcing me to tell you something.
I said, what?
He said, I've willed my Dickens collection to you.
I said, my God.
He said, I know my Dickens collection will have a good call.
That's a wonderful story.
He said, you're from Dayton.
I'm from Dayton.
I haven't got any airs.
My books are going to the universities.
I'm going to check this guy out, huh?
I have to check this guy out.
Most of his books went to Stanford.
The other one went to Lilly.
We're going to be at Stanford and Lillard.
Stanford and Lillard.
Well, what's Stanford?
Well, it's the source of his wealth, you know.
Yes, he was the general manager of the best department store in Dayton, which in itself doesn't sound like it could make a lot of money, but it was called Rikes, R-I-K-E-S.
And Rikes was bought out by a federated department store on a stocking street.
And Kenyon told me, he said, you know, I have Rikes stock that I paid a dollar for, some of it.
And he said, in the exchange,
Kenyon became a real man.
And he had no other hobbies other than books.
That sounds like it was a passion with him.
Or what?
And he told us that he became a book collector because it's something you could do by yourself.
As Bill said, he had no brothers and sisters.
Nobody.
And none of his friends were interested in book collecting.
People he had, friends that were art collectors and whatnot.
And we, so we loved.
And we had, we, the son of Collective is less than about 50% with his talent.
We obviously continued our friendship and actually started doing things together.
We went to, I was going to make a movie in Illinois.
And I also was going to make a movie in Paris.
And I said to Kenyon, why don't you come over to Illinois when we're shooting, and it's only a 300 mile drive, and visit us.
He said, no, I don't want to do that, but I'll come to Paris.
So we took an Alaskan cruise with Willie for 12 or 14 days there, and we became very good friends.
And one of the things I started to do when it was possible, I would stop in Dayton on the way back from New York or in the way to New York and have dinner with Kenyon.
And on this particular occasion, I called him in New York and said,
going back, can you have dinner?"
And he said, sure, come in.
We'll have dinner tomorrow night, which was a Friday night.
So, I flew in on Friday, and we always had a drink of scotch in the library, and a friend of us had come over and inherited his shoes.
And Ken had said to me, when I got there, I'm not feeling too bad.
And I said, well, why don't we not go to dinner?
I don't know.
We go out and get something, or I'll bring something in.
His housekeeper was off that night.
He said, no, no, we're going to go to dinner.
He said, let's rest.
In Paris.
Oh.
So we both rested.
We got up about 6 o'clock, and Harry Gouchier, his character, came over.
And we were sitting as we were sitting now, and Kenny got up and walked out of the room.
And I said to Harry, what's now with Kenny?
We just got to walk out.
And he said, I don't know.
I said, well, I'm going to check him.
So I went back.
and called his name a couple of times, there was no response.
And I went into his bedroom, and he was on the floor.
And we had paramedics and everything else, but he was there.
And you were with him?
I was with him.
I mean, there's so many coincidence in this story.
So Harry, who knew his lawyer, got him on the phone and said, Mr. Science just died, and put me on.
And
I said to the lawyer, I don't know what to do.
I said, I'm in this house alone.
The housekeeper's on.
All of his books are here.
All of his jewelry.
I don't know what else is in this house.
What do I do?
He said, stay there.
You're in the will.
It's okay.
I'll authorize you're staying there.
And he said, I'll come out tomorrow and talk to you.
So I stayed there, and I had a terrible experience, and the housekeeper arrived in the morning with the groceries to make our breakfast.
And I said, well, let's just talk about that.
A dear, sweet man.
He happened.
who was the regimentation of his life, because he budgeted so much each year for books, I mean, you know, so much for cars, so much for travel.
Anyway, the end of this story is that Peggy and I have inherited his deconstruction, which is held in trust for our daughter, who's how we are.
And he directly willed her his entire Montprincon,
We think that he willed her the collection because he did not want it broken up.
Couldn't bear the thought of Chuckleberry Finn.